1- Abstract
 The goal of this project is to use classification models to predict if a patient has a Cardiovascular Disease or not in order to help Doctors in making decisions for their patients and warn their patients in case the model predicted them as patients with Cardiovascular diseases.  I worked with data provided by Kaggle that contained patients' vital signs along with their body features. These features were cleaned and preprocessed. After that,  a feature engineering process was followed in order to build several machine learning models and to achieve promising results for this binary problem. 

2- Design 
This project from SDAIA and Kaplan "Data Science Bootcamp". The data was provided by  Svetlana Ulianova on the Kaggle website.  It represents two classes, a patient having a Cardiovascular disease and a patient not having a cardiovascular disease. Classifying patients using machine learning models would help doctors make decisions for their patients and warn them if they're in danger of having a Cardiovascular disease. 

3- Data 
The dataset contains 70,000 patients' records with 12 medical history features for each, 7 of which are Ordinal and the other features are numerical. one of the ordinal features is a result of feature engineering the height and the weight. 

4- Algorithms 
Feature Engineering : 
using the weight and the height in the BMI equation and have the BMI number as a column. 
deleting the weight 
deleting the height 
Models: 
Logistic regression, k-nearest neighbors, and decision tree classifiers were used before settling on the logistic regression as the model with the strongest cross-validation performance. Grid search was used for the logistic regression model in order to find the best parameters. 
Model Evaluation And Selection: 
The entire training dataset of 64936 patient records was split into 80/20 and 70/30  train vs. holdout. And all scores that are shown below are the models' results that were confirmed. 
The first metric that was looked at for the classification problem is the Accuracy, along with the F1-score for each classification.
Final Logistic Regression  Model scores: 11 features 

Testing scores: 
-- Accuracy 0.72
-- F1 0.72 macro and 
-- Precession 0.73 
-- Recall 0.73 

Tools
-- Numpy and Pandas for data manipulation
-- Scikit-learn for modeling
-- Matplotlib and Seaborn for plotting






  dataset to model if the patient will be having a Cardiovascular Disease or not.
